Greetings, brothers and sisters.
Today's session will begin with a music video presentation
that reminds us of our privilege and responsibility
to help others develop faith.
Please enjoy the presentation.
Welcome back to our Powerful by Faith Regional Convention.
During this session and the next one,
you will hear the talks listed under the Saturday Heading
of your printed program.
The scripture theme for today's program is taken from Jude
3, where we are told to put up a hard fight for the faith.
We'll see how we can demonstrate our faith regardless of our
circumstances, and we'll see how we can help others to build faith.
Now, let's share in singing song number 57, entitled,
preaching to all sorts of people.
Again, that song number 57, in your ministry,
do you meet some who seem unlikely to respond favorably?
Are you prepared to help them?
As we will see in our first symposium of this session,
our attitude toward others can affect how we give a witness
and how people might respond.
Each speaker will introduce the one to follow.
Please give your attention to Brother Ronald Curson,
a helper to the teaching committee.
He will begin with a theme.
Remember, faithless people can acquire faith.
The Ninevites.
Impossible. It will never happen.
Not in a million years.
Have you ever thought that way about someone coming into the truth?
Well, that might be our limited view of a person.
But how does Jehovah view him or her?
And what is his view of all humans, even faithless ones?
Notice his limitless view at 1 Timothy, chapter 2 and verse 4.
There it says, whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
So what is Jehovah's desire?
It's his will that all hear the message
and be allowed to make changes and be saved.
Now to us that might be impossible,
but we know with God all things are possible.
He can stir the heart and he can motivate anyone.
While it's true that faith is not the possession of all people,
it is the possession of millions around the world.
And it can be for those who choose to acquire it.
We know the Bible contains many examples of men and women
who at one time lacked faith, but later acquired it.
And the same is true today.
It's not impossible.
This symposium will help us to remember this fact.
Faithless people can acquire faith if we have Jehovah's view
of all sorts of people to hear God's word and make adjustments.
We will discuss four groups of people in this symposium,
the Ninevites, Jesus' fleshly brothers, prominent ones,
and non-religious people.
And in each one of these symposium talks,
we will consider what help former unbelievers
to acquire faith and what we can learn.
First, let's consider the example of the Ninevites.
As you recall, they are Assyrians or were Assyrians
who lived in the capital city of Nineveh,
and it was founded by Nimrod.
It was referred to as the city of bloodshed.
With that history and backdrop,
we can imagine what the people were like.
They worship God's of war.
War was their religion.
Yes, they were aggressive, they were violent people,
and they took pleasure in sadistically torturing their captives.
Well, their reputation was known by all the surrounding nations,
including God's people.
So that's why Jehovah sent his prophet Jonah
to go there and proclaim their destruction.
As we noticed this first video,
imagine how Jonah must have felt going into Nineveh,
going through the streets and observing the people of Nineveh,
contemplating his warning message.
How did Jonah view his assignment?
Well, at this time, he did not have Jehovah's view.
He was afraid of the Ninevites,
maybe what they thought of him,
or what they would do once they heard his message.
Well, Jonah was human.
He had feelings like ours.
A human tendency is to judge people on what we see
or what we hear about them.
If you were alive then,
and Jehovah gave you this assignment instead of Jonah,
how might you have reacted?
Would you have thought about the Ninevites
and their cruelty and their wickedness and say,
they can't change or would you feel it's impossible?
It'll never happen, not in a million years.
Well, that's how Jonah felt.
But Jehovah corrected his view of his assignment
as well as the people.
And he took that message
and that counsel from Jehovah to heart.
He proclaimed the message to the people of Ninevah.
He certainly got the Ninevites attention,
but he might have thought to himself,
well, this is the end for me.
But how did they respond?
Notice, Jonah chapter three and verse five.
It says, and the men of Ninevah put faith in God.
So this surprise even Jonah himself,
the king made a proclamation for all the people
of what they should do to demonstrate their faith.
Notice verse eight.
It says, let them be covered with sackcloth,
both man and beast,
and let them call out earnestly to God,
and turn from their evil ways
and from the violence they practice.
Who knows whether the true God
may reconsider what he intends to do
and turn from his burning anger
so that we may not perish?
What helped the Ninevites to change to acquire faith?
It was a direct result of Jonah accomplishing his assignment,
boldly preaching God's message.
They were given the opportunity to change
and to Jonah's surprise, they did.
But Jonah had to make changes too.
He had to take his limited view of his assignment
and the people and change it to the limitless view
that Jehovah had, that people can change
and Jehovah can stir their hearts.
And Jonah had to look at himself
and relook at his assignment.
He was not the judge, he was not the jury,
he was a messenger.
Having Jehovah's view changes everything.
How we view others, how we view ourselves,
how we view our assignments today.
We are ministers who have a message.
We are not the judges.
Well, Jehovah is the judge.
And how did he judge the Ninevites
worthy of being saved and have his mercy?
Notice, Jonah, chapter 3, and their in verse 10.
It says, when the true God saw what they did
and how they had turned back from their evil ways,
he reconsidered the calamity that he said he would bring on them.
And he did not bring it.
In the following video, notice the changes
that the Ninevites made and how they benefited.
Are you Jonah?
I am.
Thank you.
Well, the Ninevites certainly changed
from the first video that we watched.
Changes they made on the inside,
allowed them to make changes on the outside,
how they viewed their fellow Ninevites
and how they treated them.
And their dispositions changed from gloomy,
unhappy faces to smiling, happy ones.
They were appreciative of Jonah's warning message
as well as Jehovah's mercy.
What's the lesson for us?
The same lesson that Jonah learned.
We need to show compassion as Jehovah does.
This means more than just noticing that someone needs help,
but taking the time and having the desire
to try to relieve that pain, help them.
How can we imitate Jehovah's compassion today?
It's by putting compassion into action.
And we do this by our preaching.
And we do this to all persons,
giving them an opportunity to change
and not be judgmental.
By viewing them as potential sheep
as our future brother or sister.
Like the Ninevites,
many today are taught wrong beliefs
and attitudes from childhood.
And it may be difficult to change,
but not impossible.
What can help them change?
Hebrews 4.12 says the word of God can help.
The word of God is alive and exerts power.
Many of us are living proof
of the Bible's power to change us.
Before learning the truth,
some of us might have been violent, immoral, faithless.
But as the Apostle Paul says,
that is what some of you were.
They change back then.
People are changing today.
With the help of God's Word
and His Holy Spirit,
we can help others change.
And we cannot read hearts.
But we know that Jehovah can.
And he can stir the heart, motivate anyone.
What can we do in the meantime?
We can remember to follow what Romans chapter 10 and verse 16 says.
Our assignment is to be a messenger.
Notice verse 16.
Nevertheless,
they did not all obey the good news.
For Isaiah says,
Jehovah, who has put faith in the thing heard from us?
So faith follows the thing heard.
In turn, what is heard is through the word about Christ.
Faith follows the things heard.
What motivated the Ninevice to change?
It was only after they heard Jonas' warning message.
It is our hope and prayer that many will put faith in God
because of the warning message that we give.
So may we be like Jonah, be compassionate, but bold,
and preaching the good news to all.
Who knows, faith may follow the things heard.
Remember, it is possible.
Faithless people can acquire faith.
Brother Mark Sanderson, a member of the governing body,
will now consider the next part of this symposium.
Remember, faithless people can acquire faith.
Jesus, fleshly brothers.
Do you have relatives that are presently not serving Jehovah?
I think most of us do, and we're not alone.
Even our Lord Jesus had that same circumstance.
Even though his half-brothers knew about the miracles he was performing,
the Bible says that they were not expressing faith in Jesus as the Messiah.
Well, it was so bad, can you imagine, that when Jesus was being put to death,
it appears that his brothers were not there.
Remember the account where Jesus was on the torture stake,
and he looked down at the disciple and asked him, basically,
to become responsible for his mother.
They weren't there to support him.
But what happened just a short while after Jesus had been resurrected?
Well, it was amazing because some of those half-brothers
found, along with Jesus' mother, with the disciples fervently praying.
Can you imagine how Jesus must have felt?
Can you imagine the joy he must have experienced to see them now beginning to express faith?
Well, maybe you've had that experience too.
Maybe one of your relatives, maybe your mate, one of your children,
one of your siblings, has now come to serve Jehovah.
How wonderful.
Really, nothing could compare to it.
Well, what was it that helped Jesus' half-brothers to go from being faithless
to putting faith in him?
And what can you and I learn from that example?
Well, let's address that question.
What was it that helped Jesus' brothers to acquire faith?
Well, here's the number one thing.
Jesus was patient with his relatives.
Now, that's an important point because look at how Jesus was treated by his relatives.
Would you look with me at Mark chapter 3 and verse 21?
It says there, but when his relatives heard about it,
they went out to seize him, for they were saying he has gone out of his mind.
Jesus did not take offense, even though his relatives were trying to seize him,
even though they said he had gone crazy.
Have your relatives perhaps said some things like that to you?
Jesus did not take offense, he was patient.
Well, in fact, after his resurrection, look what Jesus did.
Let's go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and let's read together verse 7.
It says, after that, he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.
Now, this is just a very small detail, but did you notice what it said?
So Jesus appeared to James.
Now, we don't know what Jesus said to James when he appeared to him,
but the point is that Jesus made a special effort to appear to his half-brother James.
Well, James must have deeply appreciated that special attention from Jesus.
And why do we say that?
Well, Jesus, excuse me, James, went on to become a respected elder in the congregation in Jerusalem.
In fact, you may remember that in Acts chapter 15, when the apostles and older men gathered in Jerusalem
to consider the matter about circumcision, it seems that James was the one who was presiding at that meeting.
Well, what had happened?
James had gone from being a faithless person to now being a pillar in the congregation.
James and his other half-brother Jude both had the privilege of writing letters that were included in the Christian Greek scriptures.
Well, now, in the following video, please take careful note of what helped a family member to be a person with faith.
The truth came to our home through my mother.
I was never seriously interested in the truth.
Where we grew up, education was very important.
A person needed to make money and live a lavish life.
So that's the life I chose, to study, to get higher education so that I could have what others had.
Although they could see that I wasn't interested in the truth, my mother and brother did not give up on me.
When I came back from school in January, my mother ordered the examining the scriptures daily booklet for me.
Year after year, I always had the examining the scriptures daily booklet and the Bible.
She made sure that although I wasn't attending meetings, at least I had literature.
Besides that, my younger brother, the one I was close to, decided to take the truth seriously.
When I came back from school, I saw my brother getting a Bible study of his own.
And I was surprised to see him studying the Bible and noticed that he had prepared.
He cared about and loved what he was learning.
That's when I understood that the Bible changes lives.
A scripture that comes to mind is the Hosea 11 verse 4.
There it shows that Jehovah pulls us with cords of love and kindness.
In my situation, Jehovah did this.
So I made the decision to be regular at the congregation meetings.
And I finally started studying the Bible with someone in 2007 and got baptized in 2008.
My family really encouraged me. They never gave up on me.
And I encouraged parents not to give up on their children.
They must continue encouraging them and have the hope that Jehovah God will draw them to the organization
because they have good hearts.
Well brothers and sisters, we want that same experience for our relatives.
What can we do to help them to grow in faith?
Well let's talk briefly about three things. Here's the first one.
Be patient with your relatives. We want to imitate the example of our wonderful God, Jehovah.
Do you remember when the nation of Israel went to stray so many times? Well in Jeremiah chapter 44,
the Bible says that Jehovah sent his prophets again and again.
He was very patient with his people.
We want to be patient with our relatives too. Don't give up on them.
And then second, we want to be tactful.
We want to look for ways that we can stimulate their interest in the truth.
It's true, Jesus described the message of the truth like water that could lead to everlasting life.
But have you ever tried to drink from a fire hydrant? That's a very difficult thing to do.
We don't want our relatives to choke because we're forcing too much information or with too much force or power.
Instead, we want our relatives to feel refreshed by the truth.
Well whether our relatives feel choked or refreshed will really depend on how we go about explaining the truth to them.
So be tactful and speak to them in a loving way that will stimulate their interest.
Let's go to that third point.
We want to show empathy to our relatives and let our conduct speak for us.
You know, when we first learn the truth, our relatives may not be sure of how now this is going to affect our relationship with them.
Instead of thinking of many, many different things that we could say,
it's important to remember that what we do is going to speak far more loudly than the things that we say.
You know there's a saying that says, I'd rather see a sermon than hear one, isn't that true?
One sister named Pauline realized that instead of talking to her husband so much about the truth,
she needed to set a good example.
Well when her husband observed the good effect that the Bible was having on his wife and on his children,
that was the thing that opened his mind and opened his heart to the message of the good news.
You just don't know, brothers and sisters, the good effect of your conduct, of your example on your relatives.
You know about two years ago I was out in California at a regional convention,
and a sister came up to me with two brothers.
Now she had been raised by her faithful mother in the truth, but she had gone away from the truth for more than 30 years.
She watched a broadcast, and she was moved to return.
She then reached out to her brother, who was also away from the truth for more than 30 years.
He decided to come back too, and then the two of them reached out to their other brother,
who was also away for more than 30 years, and he also came back.
Hear the three of them were in front of me.
Well the sister said, I think my mother is going to have to be resurrected twice.
We were all out of the truth when she died.
When she sees us in the new world, she'll be so shocked, I'm sure she'll need to be resurrected again.
What's the point?
The good example of their mother stayed with them even long after their mother had passed away.
Brothers and sisters, Jehovah can use you to help your relatives.
They might be faithless right now, but with your help they can become full of faith.
It worked in the case of Jesus, and it can work for you too.
Now, brother Ralph Walls, a helper to the personnel committee, will consider the next talk of this symposium.
Remember, faithless people can acquire faith, prominent ones.
Some years ago, a brother in Mexico from the rural's, dressed in very simple countryguard,
knocked at the door of a palatial mansion.
A man in a silicon bathrobe responded and asked what he wanted.
The witness said, if a mule should come to your door with two bags of gold, would you accept it?
Annoyed, the householder replied, I do not understand what you're telling me.
I am a famous engineer.
The witness then asked him, what do you understand about prophecies?
The man admitted that he did not know anything about them.
Then the witness said, that is what I want to speak to you about.
I am that mule that came to your door, and the two bags of gold are these magazines, the watchtower and the wake.
The man was impressed by the presentation of this humble witness and took the two magazines.
Did that man come into the truth?
We don't know.
But what we do know is that our humble brother gave that man an opportunity for Jehovah to stir his heart.
In the first century, many prominent Jews hesitated to follow Jesus because they feared becoming outcasts.
The account in the Gospel of John chapter 12 says, many even of the rulers actually put faith in him,
but they would not acknowledge him because of the Pharisees so that they would not be expelled from the synagogue.
However, some overcame social pressure and took a stand for Jesus.
The Bible tells us of Joseph of Arimathea, a reputable member of the council who took courage and went in before Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
And the Book of Acts reports that the Word of God continued to spread and a large crowd of priests began to be obedient to the faith.
An outstanding example of a prominent one is Saul of Tarsus, who later became the Apostle Paul.
He was a Pharisee and one who persecuted Jewish Christians.
He admitted this saying, I persecuted this way to the point of death, binding and handing over to prisons both men and women.
But he changed and became a zealous preacher and an apostle.
Similarly today, some who had a high social position in this world have become believers.
What helped Saul acquire faith?
Let's let Paul tell us.
Please turn to Acts chapter 22 and we'll read verses 6-8.
Acts 22, 6-8. He says,
But as I was traveling and getting near to Damascus about midday, suddenly out of heaven a great light flashed all around me.
And I fell to the ground and heard a voice say to me, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?
I answered, Who are you, Lord?
And he said to me, I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting.
Yes, it was by Jesus miraculously appearing to Saul and identifying himself a shocking event.
As a result, Saul completely changed his values and priorities in life.
Later he was inspired to write something that reflects an entirely different viewpoint.
Let's read it.
It's in the book of Philippians chapter 3 and notice what he says in verses 7-8.
Yet the things that were gains to me, I have considered loss on account of the Christ.
What is more, I do indeed consider all things to be lost on account of the excelling value of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord.
For His sake, I have taken the loss of all things and considered them as a lot of refuse that I may gain Christ.
What was it that moved Paul to have such a change?
Jehovah used a startling occasion to stir Paul's heart, world events, personal tragedy, or other change circumstances, though not initiated by Jehovah,
may cause a person prominent in this system of things to reevaluate his or her life and listen to the good news.
Such a person may realize that high social status does not offer a solution to life's problems.
In the following video, note how changing circumstances can affect a person's thinking.
During my high school years, I would work at a shipyard as a third-class welder.
It was difficult, and in the summer times it was real hot on a water, and I just said, wow, if I'm going to have to do this for 30 or 40 years, I've got to find something better.
In that period of time, success will meant a good job, a lot of money, comfort.
And so I went through college in four years and got an accounting degree.
Every time I would get a transfer, I would get promoted so I went from Africa to Belgium, from Belgium to Scotland,
back to the U.S., and then the U.S. to Singapore, and that was really a big jump.
Nice cars, a driver, putting a whole lot of money in the bank.
And every time I would reach one of these goals, my wife and I would sit at the table and say, now, now we're going to be happy.
Now we're going to finally start to be able to enjoy this.
But it was like something fleeting. It just wasn't there.
The emptiness was growing bigger. The hole was getting larger.
We were just perplexed. We didn't know where to go to find any kind of joy or happiness.
Well, my daughter, she had a baby shop. It's so baby clothes and small baby furniture. Her and her husband ran the shop.
So they hired this young girl to help with the store and to help with their children.
But when she wasn't busy with the story with the children, she'd pull open her Bible and she would be reading her Bible.
So they asked this young girl, do you know anybody that could study with the two kids?
She said, I have the perfect people, the perfect couple.
And so they set up a study the following week, one night during the week.
And my daughter called me and said, Dad, can you come to this Bible study?
I don't know these people and you just need to be there to make sure it's on the up and up.
And so I came to that first Bible study and I watched it.
I just sat there amazed.
But when the study was over, I asked him, I said, would you be interested in studying with me?
You know, in the world, you may hit these goals.
But then very quickly after that, you're going way down.
And then you stay way down.
The truth brings you a constant joy. It is there's nothing like it.
It's just complete satisfaction. You just know now you're doing the right thing.
And it's just changed our whole life now and our whole attitude.
We are just so very content and happy.
Dear brothers, we are being encouraged to give a bold witness to prominent ones.
It's natural that at times we may feel intimidated by prominent ones and hesitate to give a witness.
But let's determine to imitate Jesus in what way?
Notice what Isaiah 11 and verse 3 says about him.
And he will find a light in the fear of Jehovah.
He will not judge by what appears to his eyes.
Nor reproves simply according to what his ears hear. Did you notice that?
So like Jesus who does not judge by what appears to his eyes,
we do not want to predetermine a person's response by their outward appearance,
their large homes, their prominence or position.
We also want to imitate the Apostle Paul and his attitude after he became a Christian.
Notice what he says in the book of Romans chapter 1.
We're going to key in in verse 16. That's Romans chapter 1 and verse 16.
First we'll read the first part of that verse.
It says, for I am not ashamed of the good news.
Now under inspiration he then comments on the effectiveness of preaching the good news when he says,
it, that is the good news, is in fact God's power for salvation to everyone having faith,
to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
So let's be determined to preach boldly to all, giving Jehovah the opportunity to stir the hearts of those who listen.
Brother Anthony Morris of the governing body will now consider the final talk of this symposium.
Remember faithless people can acquire faith, non-religious people.
I'd like you to use your imagination for a moment.
Think back to when you're having a conversation with someone that you respect and they're in a position of authority.
Now during the conversation this person says to you, coming up to certain points and they go, remember, I want you to remember this.
Well this is what Jehovah has done for us in this symposium.
When somebody says remember, then most people stop in the refocus and concentrate even more.
So what does Jehovah want us to remember with this specific part?
Well many people that are not religious can acquire faith.
And you think about every year there's people that were atheists, agnostics that have come into the truth.
So the lesson in this part is do not hold back from witnessing to people that are non-religious.
You don't want to take the position as if we're the judge of this.
They wouldn't be interested there, atheists, they're agnostic, they're wrapped up with materialism.
That's not our position to take.
We want to be individuals that Jehovah will use to try to help these non-religious individuals.
Now notice what Paul writes here in Romans chapter 10.
And you'll find out how some have changed their mind after exposure to the truth and to Jehovah's teaching.
And the only way that they could acquire faith is when this is done.
Now notice carefully and pay attention Romans chapter 10, 13 through 15.
For everyone who calls on the name of Jehovah will be saved.
However, how will they call on him if they've not put faith in him?
How in turn will they put faith in him about whom they have not heard?
How in turn will they hear without someone to preach?
How in turn will they preach unless they have been sent out?
Just as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who declare good news of good things?
Isn't that beautiful?
See this is how an individual acquires faith by answering these questions.
Very penetrating questions that all of us want to remember when it comes to witnessing to people that are non-religious.
They need someone to share the good news with them, but to do it in such a way that touches their heart.
And keep that in mind.
It isn't always just what we say, it's how we say it that matters.
Somebody has to share the good news with them if they're going to acquire faith.
So the question arises here, how can we share Bible truths in a way that non-religious people
are more likely to accept?
Good question.
So helping non-religious people acquire faith, there's an important point that the Apostle Paul shared with us in his first letter to the Corinthians.
So find 1 Corinthians chapter 9.
If you would please, 1 Corinthians chapter 9.
Now notice the 22nd verse.
To the weak, I became weak.
In order to gain the weak, I have become all things to people of all sorts so that I might, by all possible means, save some.
That's beautiful.
What a beautiful example the Apostle Paul was with adapting to his audience.
He'd speak one way to the Jews referencing the Hebrew scriptures and then different to the Greeks that didn't know about Jehovah God.
So the message is to speak to them about topics that might interest them.
And we had to share this issue with you.
The July 2019 Watchtower, pages 22 through 23.
And these are some points that you can keep in mind when it comes to witnessing to non-religious people.
Very, very good advice.
Notice the point here.
When it comes to nature, a lot of people, they might even be atheists or agnostics, but they love nature.
So using that as a basis to have a conversation is the course of wisdom.
You might say something like, you probably know that many inventions come about when scientists copied things that already existed in nature.
For instance, microphone designers study ears and camera designers study eyes.
Now what comes to your mind when you think of nature?
Do you think that it is a marvelous force, a person, or something else?
Now listen attentively when you ask questions like that.
And then add maybe.
When engineers learn from the design of ears and eyes, we might wonder who they are learning from.
I was intrigued by something an ancient poet said.
Now this is wise because the poet is the Psalmist.
See from Psalm 94, 910, but you could say ancient poet. That's appropriate.
And here's the quote.
The one who made the ear.
Can he not hear?
The one who formed the eye.
Can he not see?
He is the one who imparts knowledge to people.
That beautiful.
Good questions to ask and discuss with non-religious people.
And then we have the marvelous website, JW.org.
We've got the viewpoints on the origin of life, number of videos that can help them.
Now at the same time, we want to have compassion, empathy, try to reach their heart.
And there were some key points just to pass them on to you.
You want to keep in mind talking, giving a witness to non-religious people.
Be positive.
See keep in mind every year there's non-religious people that have become Jehovah's Witnesses.
This is important.
Be kind and tactful.
Because people will listen, not just because of what we say, but how we say it.
See if you're going to reach your heart, speak from the heart.
So be kind and tactful and imitate Jesus in the way He witnessed.
Such compassion in love was always evident.
And then this point, be understanding and listen.
See that's so crucial to remember to listen.
Sometimes in sincere witnesses do it.
We talk too much.
We ask a question and they have two seconds to answer the next thing we're talking already.
But you have to listen.
People are not being listened to today.
Don't let that be us.
See, be understanding and listen to them.
Let them express themselves.
You show you have empathy and love for them.
So keep these thoughts in mind and Jehovah bless your efforts.
In fact, in the following video, notice what has attracted non-religious people to the truth.
My family were non-practicing Catholics.
So I was never taught to believe in God.
I trusted my teachers more than anyone else.
So I accepted and loved the theory of evolution.
When I was 19, a childhood friend who had become one of Jehovah's Witnesses started to call on me.
I liked talking to him, but when he spoke to me about God, I told him,
please, stop talking about God because I don't believe in Him.
He never gave up on me.
Why won't you just for a moment entertain a conversation about God?
This question made me think.
I had rejected his arguments without even listening to them.
I didn't want to give the impression of being arrogant or stubborn.
So I thought, why not let him speak?
He used a book, Life.
How did it get here by evolution or by creation?
It was as if a veil had been lifted from my eyes.
That was the moment Jehovah introduced himself to me.
Finally, I understood that my life has a purpose.
I regret that I didn't know Jehovah for the first 20 years of my life.
My relationship with Jehovah is without doubt the most precious thing I have.
I am determined to witness about Jehovah to everyone I meet,
especially to those without faith,
so that they too can appreciate the wonderful qualities of our Creator.
Yes, non-religious people are accepting the truth.
See, they can acquire faith,
and those beautiful experiences prove that point.
So again, we say, remember,
faithless people can acquire faith.
You think back to the Ninevites, Jesus' fleshly brothers,
and prominent Jews, they all made great changes.
And today, as in the past,
here's what's happening as mentioned here in 1st Timothy, chapter 2.
1st Timothy, chapter 2,
where it mentions in the 4th verse about Jehovah's will,
whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
That's Jehovah's will.
We've dedicated our life to him to do Jehovah's will.
So all sorts of people are acquiring faith in Jehovah year after year.
So we encourage you to give a bold but tactful witness
to your unbelieving relatives,
as well as to prominent ones and to non-religious people.
Now, as we continue to preach to all,
Jehovah will make it grow.
Jehovah will bless our efforts.
Remember, Jehovah can stir the hearts of any person
and cause them to acquire faith.
Thank you, brothers, for the encouragement to view people of all sorts
as potential disciples.
No doubt you were thrilled with the release of the new Bible study aid,
enjoy life forever, and interactive Bible course.
How can you best use this new tool to help others?
Please follow along closely as Brother Robert Soranco,
a helper to the writing committee,
presents the talk,
Bill Faith, using and joy life forever.
What would you say is your greatest desire in life?
If the Psalmist who wrote Psalm 146 had been asked that question,
he probably would have answered with the words in the opening verses.
Praise, Job, let my whole being praise Jehovah,
I will praise Jehovah all my life.
Is it not also our greatest desire to praise Jehovah forever
and to teach others how they can worship Him along with us?
Those sentiments are nicely expressed in our original song entitled,
All I Can Give.
Listen to a reciting of the opening words
as we watch a portion of the music video.
Oh, Heavenly Father,
I want to give all I can give.
My desire is to please you and love you as long as I live.
I'll help those who listen to find in your word what they need,
to preach and to teach as the way I can really succeed.
As I praise you, Jehovah,
my faith is getting stronger each day.
I'll reflect on my dedication.
I'll walk in your way.
Be glad that I did not try to sing those words to you.
It is true that our faith gets stronger each day,
that we praise Jehovah.
But what are those who do not know Him or who lack faith in Him?
As we study the Bible with Him,
we want to help them to find in God's word what they need
to worship Jehovah with strong faith.
How can we do that?
Well, faith is based on evidence,
so to have faith a person must first acquire an accurate knowledge
of Bible truth on which they can build their faith.
And a good place to start is with Jesus' words at John 17 and 3,
which we know very well.
In prayer to Jehovah, he said,
this means everlasting life.
They are coming to know you, the only true God,
and the one whom you sent Jesus Christ.
Now, what is Jesus saying?
Well, that to gain everlasting life,
people need to develop a personal relationship with Jehovah,
and that requires learning the truth about both God and Christ.
What does that require of us as Bible teachers?
Three things.
First, we have to clear up any confusion on people's minds
about the identities of God and Christ.
And two scriptures that we can use are Jeremiah 10, 10,
and Matthew 16, 16.
Jeremiah 10, 10, and Matthew 16, 16.
Jeremiah 10, 10 says,
but Jehovah is truly God.
He is the living God.
And at Matthew 16, 16, it reports,
Simon Peter answered,
you are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
So, Jehovah is the living God,
and Jesus is the Son of the living God.
What could be clearer than that?
And yet, simply acknowledging these basic facts is not enough.
So then, second,
we need to help Bible students build strong faith in Jehovah.
As we learned in the first talk of this convention,
having faith involves coming to know Jehovah
as a real person trusting in him
and forming an unbreakable friendship with him.
This involves learning what Jehovah likes and dislikes
and knowing his values and standards.
Then the student can do what God's Son said
as recorded John 14 verse 1.
Exercise faith in God.
But then Jesus added,
exercise faith also in me.
So, third, we want to help Bible students
build strong faith in Jesus.
What especially do they need to believe about Jesus?
But we can let the Apostle Paul answer
as stated at Ephesians chapter 1 verse 7.
Ephesians 1 verse 7.
He wrote,
By means of him, we have the release by ransom
through the blood of that one.
Yes, the forgiveness of our trespasses,
according to the riches of his undeserved kindness.
When a person learns that Jesus gave his life for him personally,
then he can begin to exercise faith in the power of the ransom,
that it is the basis for forgiveness of one sins,
that it offers the hope of everlasting life under Christ's Kingdom
and that it is the greatest proof of God's love for us.
People need to accept the whole truth about both Jehovah God
and Jesus Christ.
But still, that is not enough.
For Romans 10, 10, the Bible says with the heart
one exercises faith.
A person must not only believe the truth
but must also value it,
because only then will he be motivated to act in harmony with the truth.
Otherwise, he could reject convincing evidence of the truthfulness
of what he is learning and continue to hold on to false beliefs
and wrong practices.
So we must do all we can to reach the students heart
as we conduct Bible studies.
Now does this seem like a daunting task for you?
Well, we have been given a wonderful new tool
with which to build heart-felt faith,
the study book, Enjoy Life Forever,
an interactive Bible course.
It uses key scriptures, clear reasoning,
effective questions, beautiful artwork,
and stirring videos to help the teacher reach the heart of the student
and draw out what he truly believes.
If you have the book, or if you have it in your JW Library app
on your phone or tablet,
please open it now to Section 1.
Section 1.
And look at the lessons in that section that progressively build faith
in Jehovah.
In lesson 4, the student learns who the only true God is
and that his name is Jehovah.
Lesson 5 builds faith that Jehovah really is the author of the Bible.
Lesson 6 reveals that Jehovah is the creator of the universe
in the source of all life.
Lesson 7 explains what Jehovah is like,
that he is a real person with many appealing qualities.
And Lessons 8 and 9 show how the student can become God's friend
and draw close to him.
Some people, however, find it difficult to imagine
being friends with anyone they cannot see
let alone with God himself.
Open Lesson 8.
Lesson 8, you can be Jehovah's friend.
And in the next video, follow along as we see how a teacher uses
what is provided in the book to help her students build faith
in Jehovah's desire to be her friend.
As we look in, they are starting to consider the information
under 0.6, what Jehovah does for his friends.
Okay, good, now 0.6.
What Jehovah does for his friends?
Cassie, can you tap that link?
Jehovah has done so much for me.
I was 14, things that happened in the past
started to catch up with me emotionally.
And I felt like everything that had happened in my life
was my fault.
I was learning from the Bible that God says
that He will take my right hand, that He will fortify me,
that He will really help me.
It blew me away.
She mentioned a Bible passage
where Jehovah takes our hand.
Can you read that?
At Isaiah 41, 10 and 13.
Please, do not be afraid, Brian, with you.
Do not be anxious for I am your God.
I will fortify you.
Yes, I will help you.
I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.
13, for I Jehovah your God
and grasping your right hand.
The one saying to you, do not be afraid.
I will help you.
So Cassie, according to these verses,
what is Jehovah promised to do for all of his friends?
Help us when we're down or scared?
Yes.
Let's look a little closer though.
I will fortify.
I will help.
I will really hold on.
Does that sound like a friend who can help
or a friend who wants to help?
I never thought of God, Jehovah.
Like that.
Do you think that Jehovah would make a good friend?
Sure.
Why?
In verse 10, Jehovah stretches out his hand to you, which one?
His right.
And then in verse 13, he takes your hand.
Which one?
My right.
How?
Cassie, come here.
So is Jehovah beside you?
Holding your hand?
Or is he in front?
That's it.
His right hand.
Taking your right hand.
He's facing you.
To pull you up and out.
Cassie, what does Jehovah pull you out of?
Oh, bless us.
And that is a direct result of friendship with Jehovah.
It grows stronger the more we talk to him.
Let's look at that in the next section, okay?
What a beautiful example of using a joy life forever
to build faith in Jehovah.
This student, Cassie, appeared troubled and distressed.
But the sister who is teaching her is so compassionate and patient.
And did you notice that the sister did not talk too much?
She just effectively used the video, scripture, and bolded questions
to draw out the student's feelings and help her to visualize
what Jehovah has promised to do for her.
Our new study book also progressively builds faith in Jesus.
Open to section two.
And look at the lessons in that section that progressively build faith in Jesus.
In lesson 15, the student learns who Jesus is
and why learning about him is so important.
Lesson 16 outlines what Jesus did on Earth and how that affects us.
Lesson 17 explains what Jesus is like
and how we can imitate his fine qualities.
Skip down to lessons 27 and 28,
which show that Jesus' death proves how much Jehovah and Jesus love us.
Many people, however, do not understand the ransom sacrifice of Jesus,
or they do not view it as God's personal gift to them.
But the Apostle Paul believed that with all his heart.
Open lesson 27.
Lesson 27 entitled, how can Jesus' death save us?
And go to point five, the ransom is Jehovah's gift to you.
Now you'll notice that the read scripture is Galatians 2, verse 20.
Galatians 2, 20, which reads,
I am nailed to the stake along with Christ.
It is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who is living in union with me.
Indeed, the life that I now live in the flesh,
I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and handed himself over for me.
Those words should come to mind when answering the last review question for this lesson.
So in this next video, see how a teacher uses the Explore feature at the end of the lesson
to reach the heart of his skeptical student.
As we look in, they are discussing the last review question.
Okay, Jean, the last review question is how can Jesus' death benefit you?
I suppose I should say that it means forgiveness for my sins,
but God's not going to forgive me.
What makes you feel that way?
I don't feel, I know.
I made better choices in my business than I did at home.
Sorry.
Jean, scroll down to where it says, explore,
and click under, can Jehovah forgive even serious sins?
Okay, got it.
Can you read the second paragraph, please?
Sure.
Some people have committed gross sins and wonder whether God can forgive them.
Happily, the Word of God says the blood of Jesus, His Son, cleanses us from all sin.
Jehovah willingly forgives even serious sins if we have a proper repentance attitude.
The blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin.
Through the ransom, Jehovah forgives our sins, even serious ones, and He draws us to them.
But Ron, why should anyone get a free pass?
Because it's not free.
Do you see the scripture link to Isaiah chapter 1, verse 18?
I see it.
Can you read it, please?
Come now and let us set matter straight between us, says Jehovah.
Though your sins are like scarlet, they will be made as white as snow.
Though they are as red as crimson cloth, they will become like wool.
So forgiveness of our sins is possible if we set matter straight.
What do you, Jean, think that means?
I need to do what's right.
I'm trying.
Yeah, that's good.
It also involves how we feel.
We should feel sorry. I am.
No, that's a good sign, Jean.
Lastly, let Jehovah help you with a step that's the hardest for many of us.
He can help you forgive yourself.
Jesus died for me.
Ron, I think I'm going to need a little more time to process this.
We all do.
Let's go ahead and conclude with a prayer.
And we'll specifically ask Jehovah to strengthen your faith in the ransom and his forgiveness.
Later, when you pray, you can beg him for the same thing.
Thank you.
Okay, let's say a prayer.
Jean needed convincing that Jesus' sacrifice benefited him personally.
If not convinced of that in his heart, he would not have the faith needed to become Jesus' disciple.
The brother was familiar with the contents of the Explore section,
and chose to discuss with Jean the Watchtower article that could best help him.
At other times, if needed, the teacher could give the student homework to read an article,
or to watch a video from the Explore section, and get his observations at the next study session.
In the video, Ron was going to pray specifically for Jehovah to strengthen Jean's faith in the ransom,
and in God's forgiveness of him.
What an excellent way to keep helping a student to draw close to Jehovah and build faith in God's Word.
God's Spirit produces faith only in people whose heart favors the truth over lies.
Let us use enjoy life forever to teach the truth to those with whom we study the Bible,
and to help build their faith in Jehovah and Jesus.
And let us pray for Jehovah's help to reach their heart.
Thank you, Brother Sarenko.
We are now even more eager to put our new Bible study aid to good use.
Now, let's sing together song number 67, which is entitled Preach the Word.
That's song number 67.